Task 1: Create a virtual machine

In this task, you’ll create a virtual machine using the Azure portal.

    Sign in to the Azure portal.

    Select Create a resource > Compute > Virtual Machine > Create.

    The Create a virtual machine pane opens to the basics tab.

    Verify or enter the following values for each setting. If a setting isn’t specified, leave the default value.

    Basics tab

    Setting 	Value
    Subscription 	Concierge Subscription
    Resource group 	Select the resource group name that begins with learn.
    Virtual machine name 	my-VM
    Region 	Leave default
    Availability options 	Leave default
    Security type 	Leave default
    Image 	Leave default
    VM architecture 	Leave default
    Run with Azure Spot discount 	Unchecked
    Size 	Leave default
    Authentication type 	Password
    Username 	azureuser
    Password 	Enter a custom password
    Confirm password 	Reenter the custom password
    Public inbound ports 	None

    Select Review and Create.

Important

Product details will include a cost associated with creating the virtual machine. This is a system function. If you’re creating the VM in the Learn sandbox, you won’t actually incur any costs.

    Select Create

Wait while the VM is provisioned. Deployment is in progress will change to Deployment is complete when the VM is ready.
Task 2: Verify resources created

Once the deployment is created, you can verify that Azure created not only a VM, but all of the associated resources the VM needs.

    Select Home
    Select Resource groups

Select the learn-a7f3c543-74d3-48f9-a0ad-55a50d061dc7 resource group

You should see a list of resources in the resource group. The storage account and virtual network are associated with the Learn sandbox. However, the rest of the resources were created when you created the virtual machine. By default, Azure gave them all a similar name to help with association and grouped them in the same resource group.

Congratulations! You've created a resource in Azure and had a chance to see how resources get grouped on creation.
Clean up

The sandbox automatically cleans up your resources when you're finished with this module.

When you're working in your own subscription, it's a good idea at the end of a project to identify whether you still need the resources you created. Resources that you leave running can cost you money. You can delete resources individually or delete the resource group to delete the entire set of resources.